---
title: IM in Nigeria programme, Chad StoryMap, trainings 
date: 2024-12-05
draft: true
---

* We joined the information management sessions at the BRC's Nigeria programme quarterly meeting.
	* IM focal points presented the impact of IM - this ranged from moving away from paper-based workflows, to training staff and volunteers in IM, supporting distributions, Excel trainings, the use of Kobo forms for Food Security and Livelihoods, WASH and Health programmes, and being able to respond more effectively (e.g. to provide IM support for the Mpox response).

* We supported colleagues in the Communications team to build a StoryMap to show the impact of a Red Cross livelihoods programme in Chad. One of the team has been helping the comms team build the StoryMap and another spent some time digitising river channels from satellite imagery. There are still a few small things to tweak but we're hoping the article will be published next week. 

- More 2025 planning, this time with the IFRC Surge IM Working Groups


- Made developments to a volunteer role capacity dashboard on Excel for IFT. With a not-too-janky workaround, got a pivot chart and a map to update based on a single slicer 
	- ArcGIS maps in Excel can use a pivot table as a data source for a map layer, but if the pivot table is filtered the change doesn't reflect on the map. Solution was to create a hidden non-pivot table copy of the contents of the pivot table and use that as the source for the map layer. It's good enough for now.

- Finished the first version of the CER Geospatial Support Tool (the Atlas instant app I've been working on) and delivered it (primarily) to the ER Scotland team, but hoping that it might get traction with others.


- Sent out a short survey to gather feedback on the ER drop-in sessions I ran earlier in the year - much later than i had intended, but have still got 7 responses so far, with some useful insights



- Half way through the MENA GIS training. 
- Prepping for SIMSCo training next week

- Making progress on CRCR location data / visualisations - first prototype ready to share with teams and have a clearer plan for a data model for the next part
    - Got access to enough of the Community Education workshop data to be able to map it
