---
title: Generalisation, geocoding, web tools, team day
date: 2024-10-17
draft: false
---
## Data generalisation explainer

We [published an article](https://medium.com/digital-and-innovation-at-british-red-cross/generally-speaking-1647906d8edb) 
explaining the different levels of generalisation in ONS geospatial products. 
It's come up a few times in recent conversations, making it a good canidadate 
for an article!


## Geocoding with Bing Maps API

Following on from [Maps in Sharepoint](https://britishredcrosssociety.github.io/gis_im_weeknotes/blog/2024-10-03/), 
we did some testing and documentation of geocoding addresses in a Sharepoint list 
using Power Automate and the [Bing Maps API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/bingmaps/getting-started/#developer-apis) 
(soon to become Azure Maps API). Write-up to follow once we've tested and documented some other options.


## Triggering Python notebooks from ArcGIS webapps

We spent some time looking into using [ESRI Web Tools to trigger a Python scripts](https://www.esri.com/arcgis-blog/products/arcgis-online/announcements/notebooks-as-web-tools-in-arcgis-online/) in an ESRI Notebook to run custom analysis on the fly. 
We got a demo working, but found that while the Python script ran well from a 
hosted Jupyter Notebook, running it as a web tool from a webmap was significantly 
slower, possibly because it is initiating a notebook server before it can run the script. 
We'll look into why it's so much slower and if there's a way to optimise it. 


## Python User Group

Our team hosts a monthly (more or less) BRC Python User Group for people working 
with Python across different teams. This month we had a great presentation on 
how a colleague from the Retail team is using Python for reporting and 
analysis.


## Planning support for GIS programmes with international partners

We had a good discussion with a partner National Society on their plans for 
including GIS activities in their 2025 planning. We'll draw up some options to 
give them an idea of the sorts of activities we can support with, to inform their planning. 


## Team away day

And finally, we ended the week with a team day in London, meeting up with other
teams that also sit under Transformation and Change. We spoke a bit about how
the wider teams work together, some context around BRC strategy, and 
heard from colleagues in the London Refugee Support team about their work. 

