--- 
title: Trainings, incident response simulation, FOSS4G UK + more
date: 2024-11-14
draft: true
--- 
Two week's worth of updates, since we missed last week. 


## Emergency Response simulation 
One of us travelled to Scotland to join an incident response simulation run by the 
Scotland Emergency Response team. We made maps on the fly in response to the scenario
and the needs of the other participants. 

Off the back of this, we started a prototype map template app so Emergency Response 
teams have a self-service tool to create a printable map with custom layers visible 
for when they are called to an incident. 

## Designer-led review of web app 
One of the team joined a review session for users of a web app we maintain, 
facilitated by a colleague from the Service Design team. The users did a walkthrough 
of how they use the app, which generated a lot of useful feedback. 

This has led to us starting a prototype of an improved tool with additional 
data sources that can provide context (such as traffic, flooding, weather), 
improved styling for existing laters, and removing unnecessary/confusing elements 
for greater clarity. 

## Trainings
One of the team completed the IFRC's IMPACT training (a rather clumsy acronym for 
"International Mobilization and Preparation for Action"). The course is designed to 
prepared staff for working in an international context with colleagues from other 
National Societies and ICRC. 

We also had a kick-off meeting to prepare for running a Humanitarian Information 
Analysis Course in Abuja, to run in March 2025. 

More info on both trainings in the [IFRC Surge Training Catalogue](https://surgelearning.ifrc.org/resources/catalog-emergency-trainings). 

## Security map 
We continue working on a webmap for the BRC Security Unit, bringing together relevant 
data from different sources. The goal is to support the understanding of risk in 
different countries. 

## Troubleshooting Overseas British Territories on IFRC GO
We looked into an issue for colleagues wanting to submit reports on British Overseas
Territories to the IFRC GO platform. OSBs aren't currently represented as separate 
entities on GO, so have no way to submit reports. (One of the endless complications in 
building a model that copes with the many and varied forms of soveriegnty). We've flagged 
with the GO team to investigate further. 


## GeoCall: Kenya Red Cross
On the latest Red Cross/Red Crescent Geo call we had an excellent presentation from 
a colleague at the Kenyan Red Cross on using GIS for flood risk management. 
They presented on community mapping in OpenStreetMap to model flood risk, 
and mapping flood impacts using optical and radar imagery together with field data collection. 

## FOSS4G UK 
One of the team went to the [FOSS4G UK event](https://uk.osgeo.org/foss4guk2024/bristol.html) in Bristol. 
There were a wide range of presentations on using open source geospatial software 
to solve problems in different domains, from mapping ancient woodland to monitoring shipping. 

Two of the most interesting from a technical point of view were a look at the Overture Maps 
datasets ([PDF](https://uk.osgeo.org/foss4guk2024/decks/11-al-graham-overture.pdf)) 
and using DuckDB to load geospatial data. 

## Maps in Excel 
In recent weeks at our drop-in sessions we've had a lot of discussion of using ArcGIS in Excel 
which has led us to explore what's possible or not for different types of users. 

Recent observations include: 
- It's not possible to change locations of labels 
- printing maps from Excel is no longer possible (a workaround is to load the 
  document in Excel Online and use the “expand map to fullscreen” button, then take 
  a screenshot of that)
- Showing users how to add boundary data published by the Office for National Statitics from the ESRI Living Atlas
- Custom boundary datasets need to be created by a user with an ArcGIS account, 
  but can then be accessed by other users who don't have a license. 
