---
title: "Counting buildings, HIAC goes live, deployment SOPs and geocoding in PowerQuery"
date: 2025-03-20
---

### Building counter tool 
We [created a tool](https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/6f8e9339543f44cd99b9f0c298058e33) in ArcGIS Online to count buildings within an area of interest. The tool queries OSM data and extends previous work done for the DEEPER project in Nigeria.
The data source is [OSM Buildings layers](https://livingatlas.arcgis.com/en/browse/?q=openstreetmap%20buildings%20for%20#d=2&q=openstreetmap+buildings+for+) from the ESRI Living Atlas. 
The tool was built using the ArcGIS Online Experience Builder, and is open for anyone to use - users can draw a polygon on the map and the app uses the Near Me widget to count the number of buildings inside it. 

### Volunteer data
We've been working with a colleague in the volunteer data team to set up a pipeline so that we can make some form of volunteer data available through ArcGIS Online. 
For the first stage, we'll pull through minimal data, aggregated to LSOA level. Over time, we'll look at how we can show where volunteers are that meet certain criteria, for example they've completed certain trainings or are listed as deployable. 

### Deployment standard operating procedures and simulation 
We finalised the deployments standard operating procedures we've been working on with colleagues in the BRC's Emergencies and Registers teams. This was followed up by a simulation 
to test how the process would work in practice. We received lots of feedback, which will be incorporated back into the SOPs. 

### Online events
We attended some events online: 

* A webinar on ESRI's [Geospatial Enablement Program](https://www.esri.com/en-us/webinars/industry/humanitarian/national-geospatial-enablement-webinar-series/national-disaster-risk-management-geo-enablement-program)
* ESRI UK's not-for-profit community of practice 
* Information Management Working Group session at [Humanitarian Networks and Partnerships Week](https://vosocc.unocha.org/Report.aspx?page=o0t9pExuBwMwml9Wkc49cgxxxequalxxxequal)

### Other things we worked on
* We worked with Canadian Red Cross to prepare for an OpenStreetMap mapathon, which will take place mid-March with one of BRC's corporate partners.
* We made final preparations for the Humanitarian Information Analysis Course in Abuja - including finalising content and facilitating travel plans for BRC staff. 
  Some of the team have now travelled to Abuja to participate in the training. 
* We wrote some documentation on our method of geocoding addresses of BRC properties using PowerQuery (the previous method relied on lots of manual steps).
* We did some analysis on engagement with the Information Management Register community of practice sessions. 
  There were eight sessions in 2024 for members to learn, ask questions and get updates on the register. 
* We ran the latest meeting of the BRC Python User Group. This session was a demo of AI-assisted coding from BRC's in-house AI expert. 