---
title: "Start/Stop/Continue, Python sessions, user research"
date: 2025-01-16
draft: false
---
# Start of year planning 
We spent a morning reflecting on our work last year and doing some planning for the year ahead. We used the format "Start / Stop / Continue" to think through priorities and possibilities for new workstreams, and also got an update on what different team members are working on. 

# BRC Python User Group
We booked in the speakers for the next three months of BRC Python User Group sessions. We'll have people discussing using Python in PowerBI, a machine learning analysis and AI-assisted coding. 

# User research 
- We had a session with users of one of our tools to discuss feedback they'd given and to set priorities for the next phase of work on the project.

# Geocoding with PowerQuery
- Following on from [last week's note]("./2025-01-09.md"), we spend some more time working on geocoding in PowerQuery, this time automating the geocoding by connecting to the Google Maps API. The process now no longer relies on a lookup table to get the coordinates for an address. 

# Other things 
- A colleague flagged an error in a postcode lookup table we'd provided. We traced the error back to a separate dataset we host on ArcGIS Online that had mixed up the area codes for North West and North East. We fixed the error and regenerated the lookup table. 
- We had a call with a colleague from Netherlands Red Cross on information management support to international partners. 
- We started work on a Surge Information Management work plan.

